docs/_docs/development/documentation.md, before:

---
title: Documentation
layout: static-site-main
---

# Documentation

Documentation plays a fundamental role in our codebase: every entity --be it a case class, enum or type alias--
mirrors a ubiquitous language concept. To make sure that the code and the ubiquitous language always evolve together
we decided that the code should be the only source of truth: every ubiquitous language concept should
appear in the code and the code should not use words that do not belong to the ubiquitous language.

This way the code __is__ the ubiquitous language: there are no additional documents describing the ubiquitous
language that could go stale and have to be actively kept in sync with the code.
Moreover, trying to change the code definitions forces the programmer to think about the ubiquitous language and discuss
these changes with the domain experts.
Lastly, knowledge crunching with the domain experts consists in writing simple data structure definitions; in our
experience, the domain experts quickly became familiar with the syntax and learned to "ignore" it to
focus on the correctness of the definitions we were writing as we spoke.

> One of our first meetings to knowledge crunch with the domain experts went like this:
>
> __Domain expert:__ ... a type of cheese is either Ricotta or Caciotta
>
> _Meanwhile, we write something like this:_
>
> ```scala
> enum CheeseType:
>   case Ricotta
>   case Caciotta 
> ```
>
> __Domain expert:__ what is that enum word?
>
> __Programmer:__ it is just a way to say that a cheese type can be any of the following alternatives: so, just like you
> said, a cheese type is either a Ricotta or a Caciotta

This approach allowed for a tight feedback loop where the experts could look at the code and check that it actually
mirrored their understanding of the domain.

## Challenges

To use this approach we had to face a couple of challenges:

1. The code describing the ubiquitous language had to be readable by the domain experts with little help from the
   programmers; this way it's possible to quickly skim through the code along with the domain experts to make sure
   it faithfully mirrors the concepts of the domain
2. There should be a way to automatically generate a textual description of the ubiquitous language starting from the
   code, this way it is guaranteed to always be in sync with the code

As described in the ["development choices section"](development-choices.html#domain-modelling-approach) the
first problem was addressed by keeping the modeling of the domain concepts as easy as possible.

As for the second problem, we developed an [sbt plugin](https://github.com/atedeg/sbt-ubiquitous-scaladoc) that,
by parsing the documentation generated by [`unidoc`](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-unidoc), automatically generates
Markdown tables with the desired elements of the ubiquitous language.

## Ubidoc

At its core the plugin extracts the scaladoc from classes, case classes, traits, etc. and organizes them into markdown tables
as specified in a configuration file.
This way we could enrich our description of the bounded contexts with automatically generated tables of the
ubiquitous language concepts without the need to manually copy and paste the scaladoc.
With this approach we managed to automate a tedious and error-prone task, obtaining an always up-to-date documentation.

The ubidoc plugin has its own [repository](https://github.com/atedeg/sbt-ubiquitous-scaladoc)
and was developed following the same approach as the core project.
We paid attention to code quality and enforce the same checks, we adopted a workflow with semantic-release and conventional commits.

Commit message:

docs: add ubidoc disclaimer
Former-commit-id: b5a342fcc4c6573f6c967c95e92c8ef51e4e9c04

docs/_docs/development/documentation.md, after:

---
title: Documentation
layout: static-site-main
---

# Documentation

Documentation plays a fundamental role in our codebase: every entity --be it a case class, enum or type alias--
mirrors a ubiquitous language concept. To make sure that the code and the ubiquitous language always evolve together
we decided that the code should be the only source of truth: every ubiquitous language concept should
appear in the code and the code should not use words that do not belong to the ubiquitous language.

This way the code __is__ the ubiquitous language: there are no additional documents describing the ubiquitous
language that could go stale and have to be actively kept in sync with the code.
Moreover, trying to change the code definitions forces the programmer to think about the ubiquitous language and discuss
these changes with the domain experts.
Lastly, knowledge crunching with the domain experts consists in writing simple data structure definitions; in our
experience, the domain experts quickly became familiar with the syntax and learned to "ignore" it to
focus on the correctness of the definitions we were writing as we spoke.

> One of our first meetings to knowledge crunch with the domain experts went like this:
>
> __Domain expert:__ ... a type of cheese is either Ricotta or Caciotta
>
> _Meanwhile, we write something like this:_
>
> ```scala
> enum CheeseType:
>   case Ricotta
>   case Caciotta 
> ```
>
> __Domain expert:__ what is that enum word?
>
> __Programmer:__ it is just a way to say that a cheese type can be any of the following alternatives: so, just like you
> said, a cheese type is either a Ricotta or a Caciotta

This approach allowed for a tight feedback loop where the experts could look at the code and check that it actually
mirrored their understanding of the domain.

## Challenges

To use this approach we had to face a couple of challenges:

1. The code describing the ubiquitous language had to be readable by the domain experts with little help from the
   programmers; this way it's possible to quickly skim through the code along with the domain experts to make sure
   it faithfully mirrors the concepts of the domain
2. There should be a way to automatically generate a textual description of the ubiquitous language starting from the
   code, this way it is guaranteed to always be in sync with the code

As described in the ["development choices section"](development-choices.html#domain-modelling-approach) the
first problem was addressed by keeping the modeling of the domain concepts as easy as possible.

As for the second problem, we developed an [sbt plugin](https://github.com/atedeg/sbt-ubiquitous-scaladoc) that,
by parsing the documentation generated by [`unidoc`](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-unidoc), automatically generates
Markdown tables with the desired elements of the ubiquitous language.

## Ubidoc

At its core the plugin extracts the scaladoc from classes, case classes, traits, etc. and organizes them into markdown tables
as specified in a configuration file.
This way we could enrich our description of the bounded contexts with automatically generated tables of the
ubiquitous language concepts without the need to manually copy and paste the scaladoc.
With this approach we managed to automate a tedious and error-prone task, obtaining an always up-to-date documentation.  

> ⚙ All the tables in chapter [Bounded Contexts](../domain-analysis/bounded-contexts) are generated by ubidoc

The ubidoc plugin has its own [repository](https://github.com/atedeg/sbt-ubiquitous-scaladoc)
and was developed following the same approach as the core project.
We paid attention to code quality and enforce the same checks, we adopted a workflow with semantic-release and conventional commits.
